hello and welcome to the package
managers weekly sync for the 23rd of
july 2019 we're still trying to work out
exactly what this meeting is gonna look
like but for now what we'll do is hand
over to Michelle for an update of what
we've been working on on the package
managers task force over the past week
okay right I need to pull up I'm gonna
pull up a thing so we can see a visual
of a thing it's gonna be great but in
the meantime if you're watching this
this video and you want to know things
maybe one the most important thing is is
that we are trying to improve our
communications outwards so let's see no
means it's coming coming that we are
gonna work I will share my screen Oh
actually I should show you I'm gonna do
this one let's do write it IRC if you'd
like to stay in touch and like updated
with what we're we've been up to you we
have an IRC channel it is on freenode
and it is ipfs slash package manager or
- package
- managers there's also a link to that
channel name from our repo readme it's a
little badge at the top so if you need
to find it it is there and we intend on
dropping an update into that channel
every week pretty much I'm sure I will
fall asleep one week and miss a week but
in general there should be an update
there at about a weekly basis on what
we've been up to in this task force
approximately in the previous week and
what we're planning on doing with links
to github issues so if you want you can
dive in and learn more and if something
interests you there you can reach out to
us and we would love to hear more but so
this past week what we've been doing is
one understanding the state of go ipfs
performance and user experience and in
relation the package manager stuff
started a performance analysis of ipfs
add lots of interesting things there
some quick fix work to documentation we
hope to do a lot of these small things
over as we find ways to improve UX or
improve people's understanding of how to
use IP FS for a package management also
one of the big things that's just that
we've been we're a new team so learning
how to work together as a big deal
we now have daily stand-up once the week
sprint planning once a week
you
demo and understand how to work together
better and then as I mentioned one of
the big things that's just trying to
improve our inward and outward comms
because it's the thing we should be
doing and we want to include our
community and what we're working on and
give folks opportunities to understand
what we're up to that that are a little
bit simpler to follow along with rather
than just getting all the github issue
updates which are all over our ecosystem
so we want to summarize that for you out
there if you're watching this and make
that a bit easier if also if you like
packaging facts we're gonna send out one
every week you know cardboard shipping
box interesting stuff it's great mm-hmm
yeah I think that's all the things for
right now Andrew what did I miss or
anyone else on this call what did I miss
one other interesting thing that popped
up a couple days ago is that one of the
developers from parrot security OS which
is a bun to fork distro that focused on
security has started mirroring their
their repository onto ipfs are looking
at using cluster to be able to to get
some community mirroring using directly
they kind of the features of cluster
rather than having people I'll synch and
then add kind of do their own IP FS
setup instead being able to say like oh
can I follow the the para OS cluster and
just pin whatever they had on there
which is really cool
hoping to have a conversation with them
around the some of the challenges they
found whilst importing that stuff he's
also I think his name is francesco has
been working on a poor request for the
apt ipfs transport oh don't go someone
sharing that screen Michelle
and basically updating that the
transport plugin for at that means that
apt can talk directly to ipfs local ipfs
daemon so that that's using the latest
python widget or at least python 3 so
that it basically works with all of the
things in their distro which is really
nice because that plug-in has probably
not been updated in over a year
potentially could be something that we
could suggest as the best way for an end
user to consume packages from a ipfs
backed mirror for Debian or Ubuntu I
believe it works in both which is very
cool that's the the only thing I think
we didn't include in that as a kind of a
community related piece of work that's
going on Molly did you have an update
from do you web cam yeah so I met
someone who I know his first name when I
don't know his last name is Emma Sean
and he's from the secure scuttlebutt
community and I don't know how familiar
everybody carries with ste web camp that
the premise going into it was iffy to
non-existent internet internet access
during this three-week gathering of d
web builders and hackers and because of
that one of the things that people were
interested and excited about we're how
do we bring the tools that we would need
to do some some actual hacking and
building while we're all in on this farm
in the middle of nowhere with maybe
nonexistent Wi-Fi together
xoda it would a couple of threads about
people bringing large packages of like
you know NPM and other things like that
we talked about bringing and came on I
confessed but I'm shipping in
performance both them kind of was like
well maybe not quite this time but he
did some work to port cargo to who I
PFS and i don't know quite what the the
status of that is whether he actually
finished it or the take away it was Oh
there's actually gonna be internet
before he finished that that port but
cooled it someone from the rust
scuttlebutt community I believe just
kind of was able to to get started and
you know from from listening to him he
didn't have any hiccups or concerns with
it
it was just like you know how much time
is he gonna invest in doing it um given
that hey suddenly there's gonna be Wi-Fi
and you don't have to worry about it as
much anymore but I thought that was
pretty cool that people were able to
pick it up and I encouraged him to come
to this weekly call if he ever has time
yeah the there was a addition to rust I
want to say kind of March that basically
added an airplane mode to cargo like
command line interface directly which
basically says like can you when
installing things locally can you be a
little bit more aggressive with the
caching of the things that you download
and I believe from the like I can't
remember exactly where the link is but
the I've seen that the kind of ongoing
work on github and it relies on that and
basically taking the stuff that you
would download using cargos airplane
mode and dropping that in ipfs so it's
easy to share with everyone else and it
has both the metadata and the Tarble
source code to be able to allow anyone
to replicate that which is really neat
because it's kind of a combination of
the client being friendly to not having
to chat with its registry all the time
opens up doors to
to allow all the clients to do all kinds
of interesting things with the way that
they store that data or where they
download that data from cool has anyone
else got any updates or things that
they'd like to share
perhaps a very high-level update that we
can just get on the recording just in
case is that we talked about and sprint
planning that we have what three major
areas of focus most likely for this
quarter and we're getting Lowe's to find
I probably can't name them off the top
of my head as well as Andrew you can but
if you feel comfortable if you know what
I'm talking about
perhaps just let Molly and Jim and
anyone else listening on the call the
recording later know where we're at I
can I can try so one is ipfs ads
performance so looking into ways that it
can we can import very large directories
of files we're looking at up to a
million files and about a terabyte of
data in the different ways that we can
improve the performance of that one from
scratch for people setting up a mirror
after downloading a whole copy from
somewhere else and to when I go to
update that usually via I'll synch I'm
pulling down the anything that's changed
since the last time I downloaded a copy
from a mirror the performance of doing
those two actions currently is for a
very large repository takes a very long
time and we're already seeing some kind
of nice potential for ways of improving
that Dirk's
been doing lots of research on that and
you can find his issue on the package
managers repo then we have a slightly
different approach to thinking about how
to change the performance
characteristics of especially when it
comes to adding things that have been
updated which is mounting ipfs as a
writable filesystem this is the work the
Dominic's been looking at and that
basically means that we can interrupt
really nicely with existing tooling that
people who are maintaining mirror
for far system-based package managers
use all the time so that's things like
our sync or SCP being able to act like a
file system means that only the files
that are changing are going to be ones
that are written and that we can
transparently update an IP NS record for
example every time that we're
every time that we're writing to a
two-disc disk being ipfs and then the
the kind of there's also the user
experience side of the whole process of
doing this setup and maintenance and
that's things like in general the
performance of the different functions
that you're going to be doing should be
not painful so things like IP and s
being faster is like something that
people will get stuck on and a Dean has
been working on making that much more
enjoyable to use and hopefully that will
then start to push through a number of
user experience elements that aren't
performance related into IP ns
and sorry my internet is is amazing.i
this is with a new router and it's not
made any difference so it's definitely
not the Wi-Fi connection to my phone
line so I'm not sure how much of that
came through but it came through on the
recording because I'm recording it
locally so you can watch it later we're
also looking at improving or like trying
to come up with a golden path or like
the the way like in one natural easy way
of setting up and maintaining a mirror
on ipfs for a linux distro package
repository and that's gonna have guides
and also some user experience kind of
smoothing off of edges to ensure that
users can't accidentally shoot
themselves in the foot or that people
that are mirroring from other mirrors
don't end up creating entirely different
hashes along the way because they used a
different flag and to try and get to the
point where it's it's kind of anyone can
set up a Linux repository mirror on ipfs
without kind of tearing their hair out
and the process and that covers a lot of
different things but those are the kind
of the three areas that we're really
focusing on at the moment I think
that was beautiful thank you so one
thing to think about for next week
is if there is any particular topic that
someone would be interested in going
diving deeply into it could be related
to
ipfs hair and how that a particular tool
inside of the ipfs toolbox helps with
package management or it could be
something more in general with package
management or potentially it could be an
interview with someone either within
ipfs or externally that has some
interesting experience trying to do my
IP FS and package manager related stuff
so don't have to come up with it now but
if you have any ideas then there is an
issue issue number one on the package
management repo that's a great place to
drop thoughts in and that's pretty much
all we have time for so thanks for
everyone for coming and we will see you
next week